Mr. David Schott of the committee staff was about to be dressed.
And that he, Mr. Combe and Senator McCarthy, felt that he should have a direct commission
for which they considered him qualified by education and by reason of the fact that during
the last war he had, as a subordinate employee, tells the substance and day war for responding
to the rank of lieutenant.
I asked Mr. Cohen why he came to me as I was no longer in the act of military service.
He replied that the army authority had not been cooperating, that General Reaver had promised
to arrange for a commission for Mr. Schott and had not done so, that I knew all the senior officers
in the Pentagon and would know whom to talk.
I answered that I would phone General Hall and find out what the possibilities were and gave
him a direct commission.
I asked Mr. Cohen an appointment to see me in my office the next day.
I phoned General Hall about 430 on July 31.
He informed me that direct commissions were being issued only in a few of the technical services,
such as the medical and judge-adget general department.
That Mr. Schott's qualifications did not justify his direct commissioning in any of these branches.
General Hall said that the opportunity to qualify for all of the candidate training was open to Mr. Schott,
as it was to any other citizen drafted into the armed forces.
And as the secretary of the army, who was aware of all the facts in the case, had directed that the
pre-sundered courted and the opportunity supported Mr. Schott, after he's entered into the military service,
should be the same as for any other American citizen, no more and no less.
Mr. Cohen came to my office at 11.20 a.m., on August 1, 1953.
I hold in the substance of General Hall's reply to my inquire.
He said that for Mr. Schott to proceed through facing training, an opportunity to would increase his
five military service and have since from these duties in the committee, which he did.
I asked if Mr. Schott had had ROTC, and if he had attempted to obtain a commission in any other branch of the armed service.
Mr. Cohen replies that Mr. Schott had no ROTC training, and that there appeared to be no chance of a commission,
in one of the other branches, except that the expense of a protractive thermal service.
Mr. Cohen then asked if the CIA could not arrange to have Mr. Schott in commission, as he had investigated experience.
I replied that the CIA drew a few commission personnel by details from the armed services, but gave them additional training,
and required a longer tour of duty.
However, I often tell a phone Mr. Allen Dulles, director of central intelligence, to ask about the possibility.
Mr. Cohen said that I need not do this. The CIA said was to duty a subject for future investigation,
and it would not be right to ask them to get Mr. Schott in commission, and then investigate the organization later.
Very soon, tell me what it means to be a smith.
They will remember generally Smith's badmouther in places.
All the facts that you remember was referenced to those two conversations with Mr. Cohen.
It does. It does.
I will ask you whether or not all those two occasions are on either of those occasions.
You considered that Mr. Cohen was acting as an individual or was acting officially as counsel for the McCarthy Investigating Committee.
I assumed that he was acting in both departments, as the counsel for the McCarthy Committee,
and especially as the friend of the young man for whom he was seeking the commission.
How long were you actively connected to the Army?
Forty-one years.
They'd weather not doing all of your years of experience with the Army.
You have been contacted from time to time by United States Senators Congressman,
and the administrative officials and others, with reference to pursuing your calls into the given a commission
to an inductee at that the Army and forces.
They've heard from a member of the Army forces.
I have been contacted many, many times, and on a number of occasions by members of the Congress.
Did you regard these requests by Mr. Cohen on behalf of Shann as ex-automator, or any humanitarian proper?
I did not.
They'd weather not only their illicitations, you felt that Mr. Cohen was being to present them
that was trying to hide their hearing while.
Not me, sir.
Did Mr. Cohen abay you that Shann was an experienced consultant to the staff of Senator McCarthy?
With respect to the investigation of inter-imperialization of communist and those who were first security members in the Army and other departments of the government?
Not to my recollection, sir.
He's been simply mentioned as I recall that Mr. Cohen, as I knew, had investigated experience.
Mr. Shann had investigated experience along the lines I have mentioned generally, is that what you mean?
That's what I understood at the beginning.
I'll ask you whether or not that is one of the reasons assigned by Mr. Cohen at that time in asking that you intercede on behalf of Shann.
Not specifically.
Had you heard of that time, Mr. Smith, that an investigation has been planned of the alleged infiltration of communist at Fort Monmouth?
I have read a good deal about the alleged infiltration of communist support Monmouth, but my recollection does not place the two together and I don't know the dates.
You, of course, would not know when Senator McCarthy or his staff laid their plans to make that investigation, I think.
I would not.
You have no recollection now that at that time that investigation was either actually under way or was only preferentialist to be carried into effect.
I do not.
I think in general, you know that Senator McCarthy and his staff did in fact investigate Fort Monmouth.
I do.
It was given why he was able to investigate, and a matter of interest to you in the State Department as well as everyone else that has been discussed.
That's correct.
Do you recall that that investigation was obviously in some thirty-three civilian inquiries that Fort Monmouth, who in either discharge, are dismissed?
I do not recall the exact results of the Council.
I know that some were dismissed and some were suspended.
The General Smith has an argument and occupying your present position.
I would ask you if it isn't the fact that you regard the work of investigating the infiltration of poor security vests in the Army as extremely important.
And having talked about our day reading in this country.
I regard the investigation of poor security risks anywhere, especially in government, as very important.
Regarding the priority rating, you're asking me to read it by comparison with other events now taking place and I must compensate for that.
I think especially regarding the important Fort Monmouth in dealing with facts that Fort Monmouth is an Army signal installation.
I paid very little attention to it, and I would not regard it as more important there than I would anywhere else in any other sensitive place.
Do you know General Smith is a matter of fact that the defense is being set up by this country against the Tomicom habit in Baumwark Warfare?
Are standards in radar plants and other plants at Fort Monmouth?
I do not. You do not know that it's a fact.
That doesn't mean that they're not. I simply do not know it.
One other question. I ask these of you who say two other questions. I believe you say that at no time Senator McCarty ever comes active you with reference to two days a child.
I'm speaking from very grave, very long term recollection. It is possible.
I talk to Senator McCarty about another matter that he before and it is possible that on that occasion the senator may have asked me to give an appointment to Mr. Col.
But I do not recall that specifically he mentioned the subject or that he mentioned Mr. Shine in connection there with and I am not even certain that on that occasion he asked me to receive Mr. Col.
Are you not even stated as a fact? I do not.
Then eliminating Senator McCarty your only contacts where we'll Mr. Col.
That's it. This final question. Do you regard any things that by Mr. Col.
I do not.
I have to ask the chairman. The last question asked by the council of the question of the chairman is I have to ask.
There is nothing in the individual in South Florida member of Congress or any other friends requesting a direct commission for an individual in the armed services.
If he believes that the individual is qualified willing to bear on it. There is not. I have done so myself.
So to make such a request is not within itself asking for a preparation consideration is it?
It is not. It becomes established that the individual does not assess the requisite qualifications.
And then one insists that he be given granted its direct commission.
Would you regard that then as asking for a preferential consideration as an army officer I work but no such request has been made to me?
I understand. I have any other requests than may be since you have been under Secretary of State and since you left the army to assist in securing a commission or direct commission for anyone else?
Yes. By members of Congress? No. How many? Yes, in general.
I would recall possibly two. Possibly two. That's all.
Thank you.
I'm Chairman. Within a limit to recollection I think General Smith's statement speaks for itself.
And I see no reason why I should prepare any questions that might elicit opinions that might be only remotely approximately two and what is before it.
And consequently I let the statement stand for itself and I have no question.
I don't have no question. I have no question. I have no question. I have no question.
When you contacted the department of defense?
Was Mr. Cohen and your time ordered you contact the army or the department of defense and then report back to Mr. Cohen as to the results of your intersection?
As I recall it, I contacted the department of defense or rather General Paul, to buy a seat to staff of the army immediately after my telephone call with Mr. Cohen.
When did you notify Mr. Cohen as to the information that you secured from the army? On my recollection? Not until he called on me the next day.
I have no question. Mr. World, I have a few questions. You have questions you would keep account of.
Never send them in.
Mr. Chairman, I think it would be a great invitation for me to keep the general here alone.
Mr. President, I think the picture is very clear. I think the new and proper pressure was applied to him and it would be difficult to apply pressure to the general.
I think you get to do more important things than to discuss a private army who has been promoted to the system until you are still a private.
I have no questions. I have no questions.
You don't know who they are. I know we are in America. I have one other question.
General Smith, you have stated that you do not regard these two requests by Mr. Cohen as being out of the ordinary or suggesting anything in proper.
May I ask this?
Whether or not in your opinion, this significance of those two requests made by Mr. Cohen and detail value may be properly evaluated as two isolated instances.
Whether or not they are to be evaluated in the light of other and succeeding events or a chain of events.
Mr. Chairman, I am not the person to evaluate those things by. I am only able to testify what I know.
Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
From Washington, the mutual network is bringing you on the spot coverage of the La Bacardi Army hearing.
Our coverage will continue after this 10th second pause for station identification. This is the mutual broadcasting system.
WOR now leaves the hearing to the Senate permanent subcommittee on investigation.
Last witness in the controversies between Senator McCarthy, Roy Cohn and Army officials, the General Water Beetles Smith, under Secretary of the Army.
We shall resume the broadcast of the hearings at 11 a.m. tomorrow. At the night at half past 10, we will present a recap of today's testimony.
You are tuned to WOR 710, New York. And by a foretrama.
America's leading advertiser is a proud to bring his trans guy, but the latest stars in the old time famous hit plays the radio.
The biggest dramatic show ever presented on radio. The WOR Radio Playhouse.
I was kicked.
The General Water Beetles Smith under Secretary of State and made an appointment with the scene.
So stated that he, co-woman Senator McCarthy, felt the shine to have a direct commission.
He stated that the Army authorities have not been cooperated and the General Reaver has failed to obtain a commission for Shah.
The General Smith passed this information along to General Johnny Hall, then by Chief of Staff.
The following day, General Smith was advised that Shah was not qualified for a direct commission.
Further advised that the Secretary of the Army had directed it. The treatment recorded, and the opportunity is afforded to Shah in as the entity army, which be the same as for any other America.
No more, no less.
The General Smith passed this information along to Carl when he called on him later that day.
On September 16th, I talked with Senator McCarthy at the World War Powers in New York, where he was visiting in the Shah's family apartment.
Our meeting was to discuss Army matters, then under investigation by the Senator's committee.
It was on occasion, as I recollect, that the Senator asked me for a commission for Shah.
I remind Senator McCarthy that if he knew, Shah's application has been turned down.
I told him that the Army was commissioning very few people.
In order that there may be no misunderstanding, as to whether or not Senator McCarthy did in fact,
to take up with me the matter of the commission for David Shah.
I told him full of telegram from him to me dated March 12th.
In view of news stories this morning, Ray Cohen and Shah would appreciate if you would make it clear to the press that the only time you and I ever discussed the subject of the commission for David Shah was in his presence.
At which time I urged a new fully agreed that his case had to be treated the same as the case of any other draftee, and that we agreed that any other handling of the case in view of the investigation of the Army would be extremely bad for the committee and the Army and that David Shah and his presence fully agreed with us in this matter.
Ending quotation.
The important thing to note is that he admits having taken up with me the matter of the commission for Shah.
Senator asked me at the September 16 meeting in the Shah in a part of him.
If the Army could use what he calls Shah in special qualification, he suggested a direct assignment such as special assistance to me, or to the Army's intelligence division with particular reference to comment.
I told him that such assignments were not possible or young men of draft age. On October 2nd, 1953, Cohen and Francis Carr of the Senator Staff consulted me in my office for approximately 35 minutes.
This meeting was to discuss the forthcoming investigation at Fort Monmouth.
I informed them that the Army would assist in every way with the investigation. In the presence of these men, I telephoned General Carr B. Lawton, demanding General at Fort Monmouth and instructed him to give every assistance to the committee.
The subject supports the prohibitions relating to disclosure of loyalty security information, as step forward in presidential directives.
During this discussion, Senator McCarthy has confirmed in his memorandum of October 2nd, which he made public March 12th.
The subject of Shah's induction into the Army came up. Paul and his need of a fine shine to the New York City area, when inducted.
He stated that the committee must have Shah in available, complete committee work with which Shah in was permitted.
He said that the Army certainly must have settled places in the New York City area, where Shah in the perform army work, without the necessity of taking basic training.
I told him that I said it would be impossible, but it's due to Shah in from basic training.
Mr. John G. Adams, a two-fold South Dakota, became counselor of the Department of the Army on October 1, 1953.
One of the things that appealed to me in appointing Mr. Adams was his excellent war record.
He served overseas for 34 months during World War II, starting with the North African infantry landing.
He had also had wide experience in legislative matters. First, as clerk of the Senate Armed Services Committee during the 80th Congress, and later as head of the legislative division of the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
I charged him as department counselor with the primary duty of liaison between the Army and the committee, and directed him to cooperate with the committee.
I thereafter received much of my information about the activities of the committee from him.
Mr. Adams will tell you firsthand what he knows about the matter at the issue here.
I shall mention some of the incidents he reported to me.
Mr. Adams advised me in mid-October that Senator McCartney had become irritated with Shah because of his contingent efforts to have his picture taken, along with the senator and others at the committee.
The senator hopes that Shah would be drafted and that nothing would occur to stop the draft procedure.
He asked particularly the call not to be made aware of his attitude for a child.
On October 27, Call New York and told me that the child was due for instruction on November 3.
He expressed two ideas of his own as the child's future best.
One was a fellow at the outset of Shah's induction into the Army.
How and tell you have been talking with General Renville, Deputy Director of Selective Service, who he said had agreed that a two-week fellow might be passed.
The other idea was the possibility of a job at the Central Intelligence Agency.
Provided CIA to pick him up before the draft got him.
After talking with Mr. Aram Gauras, Director of CIA the following morning.
I called home and told him there was no chance of chance of shying the job in CIA.
I told Call New York that the time could be assigned to temporary duty at first timing in New York, prior to starting his regular basic training, if actually needed for committee work.
I told him I could not extend the period. He told me he wanted to talk with Senator McCarty about this.
On October 31, Call and Phone, the E.O.D. was raised with two arrangements with satisfactory practice.
I gave instructions to expect some necessary details.
Shine was inducted as a pilot in the Army on November 3 and went on temporary duty that day, the first time in New York.
Almost at the same time, Senator McCarty has Mr. Adam to have Shine's temporary duty in New York camp.
Because he thought that the newspaper may pick up the story and this might prove embarrassing to Senator McCarty.
Upon running this, Call and Required Suites that the temporary duty, the extended over the first weekend, the little angel, which was done.
On November 3, I paid an official visit to Fort Fifth.
On that day, I advised Major General C.E. Ryan, commanding general, that he would shortly receive as an inductee, a former staff member of this committee, who might turn out to be a problem for him.
I told General Ryan that Shine should be made available upon the request of the committee staff over weekend, when required to complete Shine's work for the committee, and provided it did not interfere with his training.
On November 6, Senator McCarty, Call and Call, lunch will Mr. Adam and me in my office.
The Senate is on them on them. On November 6, published on March 12, date on April 4.
We told him, Stephen, we were jammed up trying to get out our reports to file.
And with the mon with investigation and the day of Shine, with about the end of the hour, and had much information and material on the reports and investigations that we could not get along without, Mr. Stephen said that he would arrange for days to complete the work over weekend and after training hours.
On November 7, Senator McCarty, Call, to ask me not to assign private Shine factory committee. I never had any intention of assigning private Shine factory committee.
But only releasing him for committee business, at times which did not interfere, it is military training.
In this conversation, the Senate has indicated that the committee had little actual need for Shine services.
I call your attention to the inconsistency between this statement, and the statement made to me the day before it, has confirmed by the memorandum from which I have just read.
I do not account for this inconsistency, I simply recite the facts.
My order to General Ryan was that private Shine was to be released only for committee work, when it would not affect his training.
Under the circumstances, I had the trust, Senator McCarty, and his staff, not to abuse the arrangements.
I may say here, however, that had I known, you had to give him the General Ryan.
In my effort to assist the committee, we see abuse by the staff of the committee for the extensive wise, the order would never have been issued.
General Ryan is here, and is prepared to relate the discipline.
In my order, for a camp, the commanding officer, at Fort Dick.
On December 10th, the Senate of McCarty's request, I lunched the Senate of McCarty, car, and the stratum, in Washington at the Cal Army hotel.
Senate of McCarty asked whether it would be possible to refine private Shines in New York, at the end of eight weeks of training.
He said he knew of cases where only eight weeks of training was required.
He suggested the Shine might be assigned to check tax books, with less points.
I told the Senator that private Shine would have to complete his full 16 weeks of basic training.
Senator McCarty wrote me a letter, dated December 26th, 1953, which he has made public, purporting to display any effort on behalf of private Shines.
I hand you a copy of the letter.
You are reading it and the rest of the team, Mr. Jeeman, so allow our Allen to be taken into make before.
Mr. Jeeman, that you got here, might be a little closer.
Come here.
And we'll have to wait for you.
The letter is dispelled.
Do you have an extra copy available to anybody in the district in New York?
Do we have them?
Would you send them a hand to me so we can follow the lead?
Thank you, Senator.
I'll have to copy.
The letter is dispelled.
Do you have an extra copy available to anybody in the district in New York?
Do we have them?
Would you send them a hand to me so we can follow the lead?
Thank you, Senator.
I'll have to copy.
This is not bombing them up.
Do you want me to read this, Senator?
I think that you'd like to have the...
Yes, not to hear it.
The secretary of the Army, Mr. Jeeman, is going to read a letter.
Would Senator McBrath, they wrote to him, as he says on December 22, 1953,
as Mr. Jeeman just said in his statement, which purports to displace any effort on behalf of private shines.
The interruption now is to permit copies of this letter to be distributed through members of the subcommittee.
Senators of the subcommittee and members of the staff.
We pause ten seconds now for station identification.
I'm the YT.
Bring, and we'll set up the Secretary of the Army, Jeeman, is preparing now to read this letter from Senator McBrath.
Dear Bob, I have heard rumors to the effects that some of the members of my staff have intervened with your department.
In behalf of the former staff consultant, David Shaw.
This, they, of course, have a right to do as individuals.
However, as I have told you a number of times, I have an unbreakable rule.
That neither I nor anyone in my behalf shall ever attempt interfere with or influence the Army and its assignment, a motion to accept it.
I have discussed this matter with members of my staff. Some of whom feel very strongly that in view of the fact that Mitch Shaw is over 26 years of age,
attempted to enlist in the Army when he was 18, but refused because of a swift disc in his back.
Whereupon looked in the merchant marine, he would never have been granted except for the extreme black-wing writers, such as Chisholm, F.R.
Start screening about his case because he was a consultant for our committees.
I realize that the decision of the draft for a derriere in his case obviously was unknown to you and far below your level of operation.
While I am inclined to agree that Mitch Shaw has never been drafted except because of the fact he worked for my committee,
I want to make it clear at this time that no one has any authority to replace any consideration for Mitch Shaw.
Other than what other drafts he has got, I think it is extremely important that this he may very clearly endure
in due of the thousand investigation which our committee is conducting a communist infiltration of the merciless under the Truman Actors and Regime.
Definitely repeat what I have told you before. Of course, the victim's investigation will in absolutely no way be influenced by the Army's handling of the case of any individual,
regardless of the whether he worked for my committee or not, which I must regard on his scenarios during the process.
Thank you.